---
layout: page
title: "Whole brain atlases generated by parcellation."
description: "This is the usage page."
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Available below are atlases that have been constructed from various datasets and
preprocessing strategies.


1. Craddock 2011 parcellations [\[Download\]](http://www.nitrc.org/frs/downloadlink.php/3720) 
2. ADHD 200 parcellations [\[Download\]](http://www.nitrc.org/frs/download.php/5906/ADHD200_parcellations.tar.gz)

#### Craddock 2011 parcellations
These are the parcellations from the Craddock et. al 2011 publication "A whole
brain fMRI atlas generated via spatially constrained spectral clustering".
These atlases were generated using a variety of parcellation strategies applied
to a dataset of 41 healthy controls.

##### Data acquisition
Forty-one healthy control participants (age: 18–55; mean 31.2; std. dev. 7.8; 19
females) were recruited in accordance with Emory University Institutional
Review Board policy. To qualify for inclusion, participants were required to be
between the ages of 18–65, have no contraindications for MRI, to be medication
free, and have no current or past neurological or psychiatric conditions.
Subjects were scanned on a 3.0 T Siemens Magnetom TIM Trio scanner (Siemens
Medical Solutions; Malvern PA) using a 12-channel head matrix coil. Anatomic
images were acquired at 1 x 1 x 1 mm3 resolution with an MPRAGE sequence using:
field of view (FOV) 224 x 256 x  176 mm3, repetition time (TR) 2,600 ms, echo
time (TE) 3.02 ms, inversion time (TI) 900 ms, flip angle (FA) 8º, and GRAPPA
factor 2. Resting state fMRI data were acquired with the Z-SAGA sequence to
minimize susceptibility artifacts. One hundred and
fifty functional volumes were acquired in 30 4-mm axial slices using the
parameters: TR 2920 ms, TE1/TE2 30/66 ms, FA 90º,64x64 matrix, in-plane
resolution 3.44 x 3.44 mm2.

##### Preprocessing
All preprocessing of MRI data was performed using SPM5 running in MATLAB 2008a.
Anatomic and fMRI data were evaluated for imaging artifacts such as excessive
ghosting, banding, and other imaging errors; no images were removed. Anatomic
scans were simultaneously segmented into white matter (WM), gray matter (GM),
and cerebral- spinal fluid (CSF) and normalized to the MNI152 normal- ized
brain atlas using SPM5’s unified segmentation procedure. fMRI volumes were
slice timing corrected, motion corrected, written into MNI152 space at 4 x 4 x
4mm3 resolution using the trans- formation calculated on the corresponding
anatomic images, and spatially smoothed using a 6-mm FWHM Gaussian kernel. No
images were removed due to excessive head motion (motion 0.2–1.82 mm; mean 0.84
mm; std. dev. 0.41 mm). fMRI data were restricted to GM and denoised by
regressing out motion parameters, WM timecourse, as well as CSF timecourse.
Each voxel timecourse was band-pass filtered (0.009 Hz < f < 0.08 Hz) to remove
frequencies not implicated in resting state FC.

##### Clustering
Clustering was accomplished using the spatially-constrained normalized-cut
spectral clustering algorithm with various different similarity metrics and
group-level clustering schemes. The similarity metrics used were temporal
correlation between voxel time-courses (tcorr), spatial correlation between
whole-brain functional connectivity maps generated from voxel time-courses
(scorr), and based exclusively on whether or not the voxels are touching
(ones). Group level clustering was accomplished by either a two-level scheme in
which the data of each participant are clustered seperately and the results
combined for a group level clustering (2level) and a scheme were the
participant level similarity matrices were averaged and then submitted to
clustering (groupmean). Clustering was performed for K between 10 and 300 in
steps of 10, and from 350 to 1000 in steps of 50.

##### The files
The download includes five ROI atlases, one 
Each nifti file contains 44 different volumes (sub-briks in AFNI lingo) which
correspond to the level of clustering. Each volume contains the cluster maps,
in which each voxel contains the integer value of the cluster to which it
belongs. Do to the clustering method, it is very likely that the results of a
clustering will result in fewer clusters then was requested, i.e. a 1000-level
clustering might result in 937 clusters.

The correspondance between clustering number (K) and volume number (#) is listed below:

<table border="2" width="100%" align="center">
<tr><th> # </th><th> K  </th><th></th>
    <th> # </th><th> K  </th><th></th>
    <th> # </th><th> K  </th><th></th>
    <th> # </th><th> K  </th><th></th>
    <th> # </th><th> K  </th><th></th>
    <th> # </th><th> K  </th>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 1 </td><td align="center"> 10 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 9 </td><td align="center"> 90 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 17 </td><td align="center"> 170 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 25 </td><td align="center"> 250 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 33 </td><td align="center"> 450 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 41 </td><td align="center"> 850 </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 2 </td><td align="center"> 20 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 10 </td><td align="center"> 100 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 18 </td><td align="center"> 180 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 26 </td><td align="center"> 260 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 34 </td><td align="center"> 500 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 42 </td><td align="center"> 900 </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 3 </td><td align="center"> 30 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 11 </td><td align="center"> 110 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 19 </td><td align="center"> 190 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 27 </td><td align="center"> 270 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 35 </td><td align="center"> 550 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 43 </td><td align="center"> 950 </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 4 </td><td align="center"> 40 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 12 </td><td align="center"> 120 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 20 </td><td align="center"> 200 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 28 </td><td align="center"> 280 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 36 </td><td align="center"> 600 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 44 </td><td align="center"> 1000 </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 5 </td><td align="center"> 50 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 13 </td><td align="center"> 130 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 21 </td><td align="center"> 210 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 29 </td><td align="center"> 290 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 37 </td><td align="center"> 650 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center">    </td><td align="center">     </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 6 </td><td align="center"> 60 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 14 </td><td align="center"> 140 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 22 </td><td align="center"> 220 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 30 </td><td align="center"> 300 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 38 </td><td align="center"> 700 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center">    </td><td align="center">     </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 7 </td><td align="center"> 70 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 15 </td><td align="center"> 150 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 23 </td><td align="center"> 230 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 31 </td><td align="center"> 350 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 39 </td><td align="center"> 750 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center">    </td><td align="center">     </td>
</tr>
<tr><td align="center"> 8 </td><td align="center"> 80 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 16 </td><td align="center"> 160 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 24 </td><td align="center"> 240 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center"> 32 </td><td align="center"> 400 </td><td></td> 
    <td align="center"> 40 </td><td align="center"> 800 </td><td></td>
    <td align="center">    </td><td align="center">     </td>
</tr>
</table>

<br>
<br>

#### ADHD 200 parcellations

These are the parcellations from the [Athena Pipeline](http://www.nitrc.org/plugins/mwiki/index.php/neurobureau:AthenaPipeline) of the [ADHD 200 preprocessing
initiative](http://neurobureau.projects.nitrc.org/ADHD200/Introduction.html).
200 and 400 ROI atlases were generated using 2-level parcellation of
[650](http://www.nitrc.org/frs/downloadlink.php/3425) individuals from the
[ADHD 200 Sample](http://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org/indi/adhd200/).

##### Data acquisition
The [ADHD 200 Sample](http://fcon_1000.projects.nitrc.org/indi/adhd200/) is an
open science initiative that is sharing resting state fMRI and structural MRI
data from 383 individuals suffering from ADHD and 598 typically developing
controls (Ages 7-21 years old). The data was aggregated from eight sites each
of which had permission from their local ethics boards to acquire and share the
data. All data were anonymized prior to sharing, which included defacing
structural images and randomizing the patient identifiers. The [Neuro Bureau's
ADHD 200 Preprocessing
Initiative](http://neurobureau.projects.nitrc.org/ADHD200/Introduction.html)
systematically preprocessed the ADHD 200 Sample using three different
preprocessing pipeline. ROI atlases containing 200 and 400 regions were
calculated by the [Athena
Pipeline](http://www.nitrc.org/plugins/mwiki/index.php/neurobureau:AthenaPipeline)
from the data of [650](http://www.nitrc.org/frs/downloadlink.php/3425)
individuals with the cleanest data as determined by registration quality and
applying a max translation < 3mm and max rotation < 3 degree threshold to head
motion estimates.

##### Preprocessing
Preprocessing was performed using the [Athena
Pipeline](http://www.nitrc.org/plugins/mwiki/index.php/neurobureau:AthenaPipeline)
from the [Neuro Bureau's ADHD 200 Preprocessing
Initiative](http://neurobureau.projects.nitrc.org/ADHD200/Introduction.html).
The first 4 EPI volumes were removed from each resting state fMRI scan to
ensure that the imaging signal had reached T1 equilibrium. The data were then
corrected for slice timing and realigned to correct for head motion. The mean
EPI volume was registered to the corresponding structural image using a six
degree of freedom affine transformation. A non-linear registration was
calculated from the anatomical to the MNI152 template, which was subsequently
combined with the fMRI-Anatomical transform to create a transformation from EPI
to MNI space. WM and CSF signals were calculated from the fMRI data using masks
derived by segmenting the corresponding anatomical image. fMRI data were
denoised by regressing WM and CSF signals, a low order polynomial model of
signal drift, and a six regressor model of head motion from each voxel's time
series. De-noised data was written into MNI space at 4x4x4 mm resolution and
spatially smoothed using a 6-mm FHWM Gaussian filter.


##### Clustering
Functional parcellation was accomplished using the two-stage
spatially-constrained functional procedure. A grey matter mask was constructed
for the subjects by averaging grey matter masks derived from freesurfer
automated segmentation. Subject specific connectivity graphs were
constructed by treating each withen-gm-mask voxel as a node and edges
corresponding to super-threshold temporal correlations to the voxels'
3D (27 voxel) neighborhood. Each subjects' graph was partitioned into
200 or 400 regions using normalized cut spectral clustering.
Association matrices were constructed from the clustering results by
setting the connectivity between voxels to 1 if they are in the same
ROI and 0 otherwise. A group-level correspondance matrix was
constructed by averaging the individual level association matrices and
subsequently partitioned into 200 or 400 regions using normalized cut
clustering.

